# Reflection 1

  In the article “Don’t forget people in the use of big data for development,” the author Joshua Blumenstock wrote about the promise, pitfalls, and ways forward about nowadays data science structure. 
  As he described, the algorithms could calculate one’s credit score based on the person’s information and could help to distinguish the level of poverty for a region so that the governments could give out aid to those who were in need. He also predicted that the algorithms could analyze the effect that a natural disaster or a pandemic could cause. 
  However, the promise is more the ideal thoughts of the data science, there will be downsides because not everything is perfect.  Blumenstock listed 4 terms that he discovered as problems: 1. Unanticipated effects: people who were in need or more vulnerable did not get the benefits that they were expected to receive because the power was only under the control of a few; 2. Lack of validation: the new algorithms were not being tested as many times as the conventional data-collection methods. In facts, it had been “tested in only a handful of countries,” which in turn, could cause the issues in its accuracy that still needed to be verified; 3. Biased algorithms: this is kind of similar to unanticipated effects, the most disadvantaged people were not really being benefited from the big data because of its inaccuracy; 4. Lack of regulation: the conventional development data were usually in the hands of the private companies, which would not be an issue for the US and Europe because there were legislation to regulate them; however, such system that appeared in the US and Europe barely existed in developing countries. 
  In order to solve these problems, Blumenstock also suggested some viable ways to work through in the future. First of all, the conventional data sets should be kept because of its stability and the new algorithms should be benchmarked more. Secondly, the core technology needed further customization before the applications for policymakers. Lastly, Blumenstock stated the data scientists and the ones who were involved should collaborate more so that the problems could be deeply understood.  
  Consider these 3 quotes with the context from the Blumenstock’s article, as the first quote mentioned, “good intent” is similar to “the promise” as the data scientists usually want problems to be solved in a more an ideal way; but, when it comes to the reality, it is usually not the way of how it is going. In another way, a humbler data scientist could discover many issues and fix them when the good intent is being applied – it just needs more text run and verification before the application. As the term of “transparency” from the second quote, this has always been a controversial topic as the technology is developing. People are always asking the development of the algorithms should be more transparent so that they can have their own ideas to help a humbler data scientist to customize the algorithms as one of Blumentstock’s points. And words from the third quote will apply eventually in some of the cases; however, “balancing act” usually needs time for it to have a better effect on its current situation, which means it needs more humbler data scientists who would follow the legislation and not to be as an outlier.

